# Table of Contents

- [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
- [KI-Cockpit Prototyp (HR-Fieldlab)](#ki-cockpit-prototyp-hr-fieldlab)
  - [Recommended IDE Setup](#recommended-ide-setup)
  - [Installation](#installation)
    - [Install \& Run Appwrite](#install--run-appwrite)
      - [Appwrite Cloud](#appwrite-cloud)
      - [Appwrite Selfhosted](#appwrite-selfhosted)
    - [Config Appwrite: Create Organization \& Project](#config-appwrite-create-organization--project)
    - [Install Appwrite CLI](#install-appwrite-cli)
    - [Login with Appwrite CLI](#login-with-appwrite-cli)
      - [Adjust the appwrite.json](#adjust-the-appwritejson)
      - [Deploy changes to your project](#deploy-changes-to-your-project)
    - [Configure KIC-Project appwrite settings](#configure-kic-project-appwrite-settings)
  - [StartUp](#startup)
    - [Start the dev server](#start-the-dev-server)
    - [Login: Register a new user](#login-register-a-new-user)
    - [Administration: Create System](#administration-create-system)
    - [KIC-Configuration](#kic-configuration)
    - [KIC-Operation](#kic-operation)
- [Next Steps](#next-steps)
  - [Domain Objects](#domain-objects)
  - [KIC API Definition](#kic-api-definition)

# KI-Cockpit Prototyp (HR-Fieldlab)

The "KI-Cockpit" prototyp is the result of the BMAS Researchproject in Fieldlab A for Human Ressources (initiated by Chemistree GmbH: <http://www.chemistree.de>).

Legend: "KI" is the short term for "Künstliche Intelligenz" (Artifical Intelligence).

<a name="recommended-ide-setup"></a>

## Recommended IDE Setup

- [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) + [Vue Plugin](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Vue.volar)

## Installation

### Install & Run Appwrite

Appwrite is used as Backend as a Service. There are several options to use Appwrite:

#### Appwrite Cloud

Register and create your own cloud account:
<https://appwrite.io/>

#### Appwrite Selfhosted

Follow the installation steps in the appwrite documentation:
<https://appwrite.io/docs/advanced/self-hosting>

### Config Appwrite: Create Organization & Project

Open the webbased Appwrite Console at the configured URL and port, e.g. <http://localhost>

- Register a new Account with your Email and Password
- Create an Organization, e.g. "mycompany"
- Enter a Project name: e.g. "kic": you will get a projectID created e.g. "66bd2c940023619b1d68", pls copy it somewhere, you will needed it :-)

### Install Appwrite CLI

Appwrite Command Line Interface is used to initialize your Appwrite project, e.g. importing the collection schema.
Please follow the steps in the Appwrite CLI documenation:
<https://appwrite.io/docs/tooling/command-line/installation>

### Login with Appwrite CLI

Open a terminal and create a folder "/appwrite", whereever you want, or use the existing one in the project structure.

Login with Appwrite CLI into you project, e.g.
> appwrite login --endpoint <http://localhost/v1>
>
> appwrite login --endpoint <http://localhost/v1>
> ℹ Info: You are currently signed in as legacy
> ♥ Hint: You can sign in and manage multiple accounts with Appwrite CLI
> ? Enter your email <post@yourmail.de>
> ? Enter your password ************
> ✓ Success: Successfully signed in as <post@yourmail.de>
> ♥ Hint: Next you can create or link to your project using 'appwrite init project'

#### Adjust the appwrite.json

There is configuration file in your kic-project folder "/appwrite", which contains the collection schema for this project:

> /appwrite/appwrite.json

Copy this file into your working-dir, where you want the have your appwrite configuration. If you don't want to have it at a seperate place, of course you could also using the existing appwrite-folder in the project-structure.

Now you have to adjust this file to match your installation settings of appwrite. Open the file in a text editor and change the `projectId` and `projectName` to your own appwrite instance.

If your created an appwrite project with the name "kic" and the autogenerated project-id "6781f698001955d92c41", the top of the appwrite.json file should look like:
> "projectId": "6781f698001955d92c41",
> "projectName": "kic",

#### Deploy changes to your project

If the appwrite.json is adjusted and saved, you can deploy the collection schema into your database by executing the appwrite CLI command, executed in the same folder, where the appwrite.json is:

> appwrite push collection

Press "a" to select all.

The process could take some seconds and should end with the last message:
> Success: Successfully pushed 14 collections

If you open the appwrite web-console of your project, you should see the database and collections created. Congratulations!

More options of the appwrite comand line inferface you can find documentated here:
<https://appwrite.io/docs/tooling/command-line/deployment>

### Configure KIC-Project appwrite settings

In order to connect to the appwrite kic-project, you have to configure the webapp accordingly:
Configure your KIC-Project with two settings, like:

- endpoint (e.g. <http://localhost/v1> )
- projectId (e.g. 66bd2c940023619b1d68)

For the moment being, the configuration has to made in the src-code file:

> /src/appwrite.js

Therefore open the file and change the relevant lines, to your values like:

`.setEndpoint('http://localhost:8123/v1')
    .setProject('66bd2c940023619b1d68');`

## StartUp

### Start the dev server

npm run dev -- --open --port 3000

### Login: Register a new user

Please register a new user, if no user is setup.
Enter Mail and Password and press register.

### Administration: Create System

First step is to register a new system, because all entities are related to a system. After one system is created, select the system in the dropbox in the top menu bar.

### KIC-Configuration

Now start to configure your KI-Cockpit in the following sequence:

- Create Modules
- Create Risks
- Create Measures
- Link Measures to Risks

### KIC-Operation

As a KIC-Operator open the KIC operation view, there you can find the configured charts as well as the modules with their level of autonomy.

# Next Steps

## Domain Objects

Have a look in the [KIC-Documentation](/docu/index.md) (only available in german)

## KIC API Definition

Have a look in the [KIC API Definition Draft](/api/kic-api-v1.0.0.yaml)
